for Muslim American student asnau
tabasam being chosen as valedictorian
for the University of Southern
California was caused for celebration
but then USC abruptly banned to basam
from speaking because of a pressure
campaign by pro-israel activists she
says she feels surprised disappointed
and betrayed a university is supposed to
embrace discourse it's supposed to
embrace ideological inquiry if you
silence one person you're effectively
Sil in a lot of people campus Jewish
groups opposed to bosom's selection and
the campaign to silence her was fired up
by social media posts like this one from
self-help book author and self-described
Jewish activist Samantha Edis they chose
a Muslim anti-semitic and anti-israel
student tabassum's detractors pointed to
Links from her Instagram page to a site
that criticizes Zionism as quote a
racist settler Colonial ideology I'm not
an anti-semite and I think any
conflation of anti-zionism and
anti-Semitism is deeply deeply
problematic USC Provost Andrew Guzman
wrote to the university community saying
that the decision was all about campus
safety saying the intensity of feelings
fueled by social media has escalated to
the point of creating substantial risks
relating to security and disruption at
commencement the Council of American
Islamic relations called USC's decision
cowardly now the message is obviously
the message is we don't stand by our
students especially if those students
happen to be Muslim
Students especially if there are
students who dare to speak for
Palestinian human rights and the message
they sent is that we
reward bigots who who engage in
defamation in threats uh against the
security of a university last year the
heads of Harvard and the University of
Pennsylvania were forced to resign after
being grilled by conservative
Republicans in a congressional hearing
about alleged anti-Semitism on
campus on Wednesday the president of
Colombia University neat shafik faces
questions from the same Congressional
committee about anti-war activism
student protests and freedom of speech
Rob Reynolds Al jazer Los Angeles